An Agent-Based Model of Local Policing and Colorism.
This project models the policing behavior of two types of local-level police-agents based on the phenomena of colorism. Colorism is the preferential treatment of people with light skin and discrimination against people with dark skin (Russell et al 2013). The red police-agents (c-police) represent police officers whose policing decisions are influenced by colorism. The green police-agents (police) represent police officers whose policing decisions are not influenced by colorism. The three breeds of citizen-agents (darks, mediums, and lights) represent the complete skin color spectrum of the citizenry. The patch space is divided into three zones. The top zone, represented by white patches, is the ideal space-free society. The middle zone, represented by orange patches, is the detainment space. The detainment space represents all criminal justice functions except for incarceration. The bottom zone, represented by red patches, is the incarceration space. The incarceration space represents imprisonment. The simulation demonstrates how individual policing decisions, biased or not, might impact long-term incarceration outcomes. In addition, the simulation demonstrates the role that organizational socialization plays in the transference of colorism. The project draws from several streams of logic, which include colorism, risk perception and organizational socialization.

To use this model, first install NetLogo 5.3.1. A copy of the NetLogo install file can be found in this repository, or you can download a copy of the install file via this link: https://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/download.shtml.  Versions other than NetLogo 5.3.1 may not work with this model.  Once you have installed NetLogo, download the model (Local Policing and Colorism, Uni-directional Influence.nlogo). Launch the model and click on the "Info" tab for instructions on how to use the program. 
